with the white paper for uh the
hyperloop so this is elon musk's
big idea for a train which is now being
promoted on at least three continents
they have hyperloop france hyperloop
somewhere like dubai i forget the
hyperloop brazil
hyperloop united states of america so
the number the and of course the least
impressive all hyperloop las vegas which
is already opening and
running you know so look i don't think
it takes a genius to look at that white
paper and say okay first of all
if you have a tube with a partial vacuum
it was completely surreal the minute i
looked at that i thought
how can you say it's an absolute vacuum
why would anyone in their right mind
promise that this would be like a
laboratory conditions vacuum but okay
it's under
a partial vacuum let's just pretend he
wasn't promising the impossible
well you need the same seals whether
it's full or partial well okay but the
the amount of energy and time you're
gonna need to pump out the air and
achieve an absolute vacuum i mean this
is huge
okay but okay so you got it you got a
tube that's under a vacuum the first
disadvantage is you can only possibly
have one train and two stops
because if a door opens anywhere along
the line you can't have multiple trains
stopping at multiple stops
so you're done with something like a
subway system that just connects two
points
this is a huge obvious shortcoming never
addressed by anyone
you know never recognized me almost but
then you've already mentioned this but
there were
you mentioned the turbine so you have a
turbine
which is fundamentally you could say
churning air it's chewing up and
spitting out air you want as much air
pressure as possible for it to remind
in a sense turbine and zero pressure and
then also
not maglev this is often not magnetic
levitation
that it would float on the same
principle as a hockey puck on an
air hockey table that there would be
jets
spitting air out into an absolute
vacuum so only science i've studied is
political science i'm looking at the
first time
i i had never heard thunderfoot or
anyone else criticize elon musk
i looked at the white paper out of
pure ignorance and curiosity nobody had
coached me
nobody had wetted my skepticism and i
can see
this is fundamentally incompetent and
impossible i
i don't know you tell me what does
impossible mean anymore
is this i mean do people who study
journalism
lack some kind of basis in the sciences
that i've got
what's the explanation for this things
right now is that the science editors of
all the like space.com and teslarati and
all these guys
they got to step up their damn game man
because they are just
reciting garbage time and time again
it's all clickbait nonsense and they
don't seem to have the scientific
literacy that it takes
of a and like like you said you don't
have a background in science but you
looked at that and you
knew that it was not right right maybe
you didn't understand all the different
ways it wasn't right
but right off the bat like you said you
look at it you go
uh you know that's that doesn't sound
like it's going to work
like how are you going to take a 30
meter wide or
30 meter long cylinder running down a
vacuum tube
and bank that son of a [ __ ] around a
corner i mean it's going to be a really
really wide corner
but you're going to have to have the
thing while traveling faster than a jet
while traveling like so what's the angle
is the curve going to be yeah that's
ridiculous yeah exactly
but like it's going to be like a nascar
track right it's going to have to be
because i mean otherwise your momentum's
just going to be all wrong you're going
to be throwing people into the wall
but for for all of it i mean none of it
made any sense
and i think one of the biggest things
about musk
is that okay there's two examples now
you he introduces a hyperloop he
introduces the white paper
and then he says to the world we're
going to hold a competition and you're
going to
this is the unwritten part you're going
to work this out for me
and i'm just going to keep the tech but
i'll give you the prize right
that's basically the whole hyperloop
competition he's doing the exact same
thing right now with the carbon capture
because he doesn't know how to do
institute resources and fuel development
on mars so he's offered this hundred
million dollar prize
you know which made all the media and oh
wow isn't he wonderful and he's doing
this for the planet
no son of a [ __ ] is trying to get out
the cheap way for somebody else to
figure out how to make fuel on mars for
him
because he doesn't know how to do it and
starship depends on it
hey folks this is fred
i was uh hearing a report on the
hyperloop i mean what happens when all
of a sudden
an earthquake hits there's no way
out there's no need of hollering and
screaming yelling
you're in a more or less a coffin
already
so your fate is sealed
so far none of the tubes that they've
created
have dealt with the expansion issue in
any way
whatsoever or just simply an earthquake
hell a car crash into one of the pillars
any slight dent in that wafer-thin tube
and you would be looking at a cascade
failure
this is so so unsafe
i mean we as a people have
done so many unsafe things and
we continue to do it we continue to
put people's lives at stake
for the sake of the dollar bill
i mean the first thing we should assume
is that we are very dumb
you know things have obviously gotten
way more smarter than the past way
smarter
the most important thing like i said the
most important mistake i see smart
people making is assuming that they're
smart
they're not yeah well i think the other
question here is the belief
in genius now i've known some people who
were considered geniuses who were
especially brilliant
in kind of one field or another oh okay
let's name some names
phyllis granoff is supposed to be a
genius in sanskrit
you know i remember somebody said to me
of her proudly she's the only
scholar who can sit down and read
sanskrit as casually as if she were
reading the newspaper in english she was
considered a great
genius let me tell you something you can
you can be talented in just one field in
just one area like
playing the guitar or playing the drums
and you can be a complete idiot
in every other field phyllis granoff
you're an idiot
i'm in a position to know but you know
to get into
the world of business of investment
of the stock market and making money
there there are a lot of ways
to make money and you know very few of
them really
involve even the kind of narrow focused
intelligence that learning
sanskrit involves i'm not overrating
learning sanskrit by the way you know
learning sanskrit is more difficult than
learning how to play chess let's put it
that way
but you know what is it about money
[Laughter]
you know i i think you should get into
this a little bit you
for me you opened my eyes to the extent
to which his involvement with
uh online payment platforms now called
paypal
wasn't even called paypal then you know
this really was a kind of
sham not to say the business was a sham
but the presentation of it to the press
gym
but you know so what if he got rich off
of paypal like if if even we take that
as
as true you know i think it's really
worrying for our culture that we're
ready to raise someone up and treat them
as a genius
because they happen to invest in a
company like paypal
at the right time and make a lot of
money out of it
what a lot of people don't realize is
that you know when
all somebody has to do for you to
consider them to be a genius is for them
to have 20 iq points on you
right but amora's got 20 iq points on an
idiot
right it it really breaks down to that
that most of the people
and people aren't even necessarily
voluntarily
idiots they're just not schooled
properly they don't have the scientific
literacy
they've got their their own bias
confirmations coming in from other
idiots that they're that are close to
them
right so if if musk can talk
at a level that's above your head it you
know it's no different than
an ordinary person and a magician right
they're showing you something you can't
understand so you think that they got it
all under control
and really i think that's all that musk
does if you listen to the way that he
talks
he talks about um one of his favorite
things is
instead of saying many times over he'll
say orders of magnitude stuff like that
and people go oh
wow like that that's how a genius would
clock
no it's just a catch phrase that he's
latched on to that
he knows will make you think that way
that's all it is he's creating
he has he's a force in society that's
like like a a
a cross pollination of thomas edison
and tony stark from the avengers okay
you cross-pollinate those two folks
you get elon musk when i think we can go
to mars i mean i think
possibly as soon as five years from now
um really yeah so when you were talking
to elon musk did you get the sense that
you were talking to like
a genius what did it feel like like i'm
a chimp
like you i'm like like you're that
person yeah i'm not
that's exactly what i was gonna say yeah
i am that toxically stupid person
talking to this guy really wants to
create gigantic power stations in
australia to fix their grid and wants to
shoot rockets into space and anything he
does is completely fascinating to people
well he's a legitimate super genius
legitimate like when he's not full
[ __ ] he's that that is his his thought
process is extraordinary
but one of the things that was really
clear from talking to him
was that it's uncomfortable that his
whole life it's been
this tornado of ideas
i watched his head yeah and he he's like
you wouldn't want to be me
[Music]
i'm like what do you mean man you know
he's like it's a
it never shuts off right you know and
like oh
[Music]
no no i think the playing paper
is there another way we can engineer you
know it's it's
better if i can swing like this oh good
so get it
get it near my neck that's even better
wait don't go in that way
don't go in that way go away from me
crazy
many people in the audience who are
listening to joe rogan
i think they can't imagine the
difficulties involved with orbital
space travel uh sorry maybe i should
even say orbital space travel
orbit let alone movements between
earth and the moon the moon and mars you
know talk about orders of magnitude
mars being several orders of magnitude
more difficult than
the near earth orbit and more expensive
and so on but
everybody listening to the joe rogan
podcast
has been on a train you know like
most of these people have real life
experience with
subways and trains and getting around
las vegas nevada you know what i mean
like that's the part i don't get is
you're so willing to believe this guy is
this brilliant new solution for things
that you
are familiar with and where you you know
you may know as much or more
than uh than elon musk one of the things
that
musk kind of benefits from from this
north american audience is that they
aren't familiar with high-speed rail
europe has it asia has it right uh the
the
emirates have it but there's no
high-speed rail lines
in north america they can't even figure
that out but
musk is saying that you know they're
going to go la to new york eventually
in in a vacuum tube that's moving at 800
miles an hour it's like
okay first off we already know
that the air skates are out and maglev
is out so far as
musk is concerned because he announced
shortly after he made all those other
announcements that he would probably
have to advocate
wheels for for keeping them off of the
ground
right so as soon as you the press still
reports the still press
still reports maglev and still reports
air lev
but yeah so i'm just saying the opposite
we're saying is still circulating in the
press
go on exactly but
sometimes i almost wonder if musk didn't
uh announce hyperloop to keep the
engineers from like virgin
busy while he was busy at spacex getting
past them and getting the contracts for
you know lunar landers and that kind of
stuff right because musk isn't doing
hyperloop anymore
right he's doing a boring company but
boring company isn't hyperloop
right hyperloop if something's ever
going to be hyperloop according to the
white paper it's going to be in a vacuum
tube and it's going to be on ear skates
period if it's a maglev whether it's a
maglev on rails
or maglev on rails in a vacuum it's
still maglev it's not a hyperloop
yeah right so basically as far as i can
tell
hyperloop's dead yeah right they're not
doing the
the competitions anymore but like you
said this still being reported
in the press and the media that you know
elon musk invented the hyperloop and
anytime that there's a hyperloop project
if it's in dubai or wherever the next
contract is you know
going to disappear from um they
automatically associate
musk with that yeah and what the hell
has he done
like he hasn't done anything with it he
doesn't have a hyperloop division
oh no and they just opened a new test
facility in toulouse
france so governments and private
investors keep lining up to put
money into a hyperloop and you know
they're they're going to have their
tests
in 2025 they're gonna be able to do a
one mile test i'm sorry i figured it was
one mile or one kilometer
in 2025 i mean you know if you
are interested in public transportation
there are people who build a whole train
in five years guys that was announced in
and everyone's reporting this as genius
and a scientific breakthrough and
everything like
yeah so no he's still he's still really
the capital right this is the hyperloop
one capsule
you saw that right but this is the one
in france as
there is one in the american desert
somewhere in in nevada or whatever yeah
yeah i think it's the one in france i
might be wrong
um but it was reportedly made out of
vibranium
yeah anybody listening google this
hyperloop capsule vibranium you'll see
this come up
it's like an empty coke can that nobody
was allowed to take cameras
in because of course they don't have a
means of propulsion they don't have
seats they don't have a layout
it's kind of like a starship that way
you know where you can see the outside
but nothing on the inside
right there there is nothing on the
inside so yeah no
people should do that you know just to
kind of get caught up with
how out of whack the media is from
reality to what they're reporting
because there's a huge disconnect there
you played fallout 3 always like
i really played that game a lot
let me explore every corner of that game
[Music]
i'm looking for a new video game can you
give me a recommendation overwatch i
play overwatch
yeah um
overwatch is amazing oh which is amazing
yeah
[Music]
and i was worried about him because he's
one of our great geniuses and we have to
protect our genius you know we have to
protect thomas edison and
we have to protect all of these people
that
came up with originally the light bulb
and the the wheel
and all of these things and he's one of
our very smart people and we want to
we want to cherish those people i think
he's like remapping civilization and
trying to make a better yacht
i played obviously skyrim um i did not
complete skyrim that was intense
it was like it's a big game
[Music]
i played plot four that was great
you have to give him credit i spoke to
him very recently and he's also doing
the rockets he likes rockets
and uh he does good at rockets too by
the way i never saw where the engines
come down with no wings no anything and
they're landing i said i've never seen
that before
you know just like shaquille o'neal is
eight feet tall and some people are four
feet tall
you know some people just have a brain i
mean there's no
there's no level playing field when it
comes to anything whether it's
athletic performance or mental
performance well there's hearthstone
i haven't tried that one yet yeah i know
people love it
[Music]
do you play anything besides of which i
mean um
we try the new dsx i have tried the new
dsx it's okay but like
the best game i played recently and it's
not a super new game is the last of us
oh is it from a couple of years ago sure
i loved it
okay last of us yeah you like that too
is it really good
yeah i've heard good things about
uncharted it was just
really the last of us the prior deus ex
and the original
the original deus ex was the
storytelling was amazing
uh shocking how well you know how it's
come
so fast i mean you go back a year and
they were talking about the end of the
company and now all of a sudden they're
talking about these great things he's
going to be building a very big plant
in the united states he has to because
we help him
so he has to help us i don't know if
anybody's played did you play the
original deus ex
that was killer he's not just milking
this
for positive and sympathetic support in
the press he's all
he's also milking it for millions of
dollars in government support
government contracts and private sector
support private sector investment
so that's so morally it's really
different yeah
i got a great question for for you and
your listeners and it's something that
we posted on
uh twitter there the other day so you've
got tesla
who was given a billion dollar tax break
in nevada
for their factory there uh buffalo new
york gave another billion dollars well
they didn't give them a billion dollars
they built a billion dollar
factory for tesla giga2
um and that was in return for hiring
commitments
which musk has never honored and
is looking for another deferral so he
doesn't have to pay 41 million dollars a
year in fines because he's not giving
the area the jobs that he wanted
so you've got this this company that
is reliant on handouts that takes
buyers incentives offer you know for
every vehicle because the government's
paying people to buy
evs which is basically the poor taxpayer
uh paying the difference for the rich
taxpayer to get into
a model 3 or ass or x or whatever
you've got government handing musk money
every which way so far as tesla is
concerned but tesla is then allowed to
turn around and sell green
credits to legacy auto right how the
hell does that work yeah
this is emissions trading yeah so i just
say even back in 1997 when i was a
university student in political science
i have always regarded emissions
training as a scam i'm a
pro-environmentalist person
i'm a vegan i'm not a climate climate
change denier or something
but you know no no that that whole
business of robbing peter to pay paul or
wherever you want to put it
um this world of emissions trading is
bizarre and yes one of the people who's
profited most from it is
uh is elon musk the idea of that
profit tesla's profit that he reported
in q1
didn't come from their selling of
vehicles it came from the selling of
those credits and their profit made on
bitcoin
right like there's they're losing money
selling cars because they can still turn
around and sell these credits
and imaginary fiduciary tokens
you know for for profit which is i mean
i don't know what your feelings about
i'll just i'm just going to summarize
the audience briefly so this is a bit
like the catholic church
selling condolences or the catholic
church selling moral absolution to
people
you have one company in one place that
is polluting
and they say okay we will pollute less
and then we will sell the token we will
sell the credit we'll sell this
imaginary
you know permission slip to another
company who will then pollute more
or they'll continue polluting at the
same levels so there definitely were
examples in africa
i never found an example like this from
thailand or laos or cambodia but
they may well exist there uh they just
haven't been fully documented but there
were there were examples in africa
where you'd have a factory it could be
it could be a noodle factory like it
doesn't have to be really that
big and heavy a business or industry and
sometimes they would just shut down
they'd say okay we're going to shut down
for six months
so we're not using you know we're not
burning so much coal or producing so
much
smoke anymore and so now we have so many
tokens
to sell to other companies and profit
from
so it can really be as simple as that
but yeah it's it's um
it's bad in theory and worse in practice
and it really emerged from the strange
optimism of a bygone era of uh
bill clinton uh political science i'd
say yeah
sorry go on so far as the tokens go that
would be great
if the company was actually a private
company
uh that was that wasn't relying on the
taxpayers
to you know to subsidize everything that
they're doing
and it's the same thing at uh at spacex
right
um you everybody thinks that spacex is a
private space company
and completely ignores its taxpayers
dollars
yeah it's about 10 billion dollars that
he's gotten from nasa so we're in that
neighborhood
right um and yet crew dragon was four
years late
and um i mean what they're doing right
now down at boca chica is an absolute
disaster ecologically
and they're operating outside of what
texas even allows them
uh with their conversion of state law
they actually changed texas state law to
allow
musk to launch 12 dragons a year
from monday to friday seven to seven
nothing on weekends but dragons
right right uh falcons falcons nines uh
maybe falcon heavies
this predates starship right so
nothing in texas state law allows
musk to launch starships for boca chica
never mind uh destructively testing them
right right so i mean he takes he takes
and takes and takes and takes and nobody
realizes
um how much he's taking or where he's
taking it from well
i'd mention this because this might be
something you you look into or hear
about sooner or later
but to my knowledge the only government
that stood up to
musk is china you know everyone else
just wants to embrace him and encourage
him whether it's the american government
of the french government
nobody has any hard words for him but
well germany
okay germany is has got some problems
with them there
right so that's so so some some
department of the german government is
saying the numbers don't add up or
something yeah okay go on
i want to hear about this gigafactory
berlin
um that area first off they had to to
level
a growth forest right it had some
protective species in it and
they had to wait for them to come out of
hibernation before they could relocate
them that kind of thing
but there is a water allowance that the
factory was given
and apparently that water allowance once
the factory is up and running
is going to be blown right through like
the
what was supposed to be the max that the
factory is is probably going to be the
minimum
that the factory is going to use so
that's going to result in a water
shortage there
and then there's different environmental
things that have come to light recently
where
uh inspectors have come across pipes
that were underneath the factory for
dispensing waste that were not on
anybody's diagram nobody knew anything
about them
um and then what are some of the other
things
um the union busting activities that
musk is famous for
apparently he's under investigation
right now for paying his workforce less
than the mandatory minimum wage
uh there's all sorts of different things
in germany
yeah and uh so there's about half a
dozen different investigations going on
for gigafactory berlin right now but
again here's something else that people
don't realize gigafactory berlin
is being built on on land that
they made tesla buy where i mean the one
in china
china just owns that that whole factory
is owned by china
but is being built on all conditional
permits
right so if at the end of the day the
final inspectors come in to give final
approval and they don't like what they
see
tesla has to bulldoze the factory and
reconstitute the land to the way it was
before
and right now they're buggering
everything up
and the germans take those things very
seriously i mean it is not
it is not a case where they're going to
be able to appeal to german parliament
to make an exception their case
i would expect a red light agree well
you know
china um is not a democracy
but on a scale of one to ten they're not
quite a zero for democracy there may be
a one out of ten
for there's a little bit of democracy
you know and there's a lot of
suspicion and hostility toward tesla and
china in the millionaire class
now this may shock you but the chinese
government is actually somewhat
influenced by the opinions of
multi-millionaires in their country
there is you know the sake there's no
democracy but you know these are some of
the same people that eat lunch together
and you know what exactly china's
problem with
uh musk and tesla is it's somewhat
secret
but it does seem to be that one of their
big concerns is actually the quality of
the cars
is actually the reliability and so on so
that's
i mean it's kind of taboo everywhere
except consumer reports
but i remember thinking oh isn't that
interesting
and maybe china will be the one country
that's really asking tough questions
that nobody
wants to ask about uh voting elon musk
and tesla
well if you talk to tesla shareholders
again they're under the impression that
musk
owns that factory and that's why you
know they're showing a loss
because they're doing all this
expansionist activity
and i mean that's just nonsense the um
the
factory itself was built by china
the the gear on the inside all the
factory equipment
um is you know you know
well china holds the loans against it
right uh musk had to take out loans with
the chinese government to
outfit those factories right so china's
got
an image problem with tesla right now as
a matter of fact tesla's
at this point aren't allowed in some
parking garages they aren't allowed on
some city highways that are toll
highways
um and this all comes down from well
some of it
comes down from that auto show outburst
that uh where that lady
got up on stage and started screaming
about the problems that she was having
with her car
but i mean it goes a lot deeper than
just that one i'll give you one you
might not know
one you might not know there was a
multi-millionaire in china
and i think he was the first man in
china to receive a tesla
but if not he was one of the very first
and he
very publicly smashed his tesla to bits
with a crowbar
now to the limit of his strength and
that was on video and that was in the
news there
and yeah it was a interesting moment now
political relations between the united
states and china were much more positive
than they are now
since then donald trump came and went
and now uh joe biden joe biden is more
anti-china than
than trump was to everyone's surprise
and and really supply chain and
economic relation the united states and
china may now really break down
elon musk man losing his investment in
china for reasons
unrelated his incompetence but i would
say sorry because you know i've lived in
china in the past i i read and write
chinese and so on
but actually that moment of this guy
smashing
his tesla with the crowbar in china and
saying it was
it wasn't even that he was complaining
so much that it was a worthless piece of
junk he was complaining that elon musk
was arrogant
and that the tesla corp was which i
think is a reasonable complaint
um but arrogance carries a lot of weight
there i would say that was maybe the
iconic moment that formed
china's idea of tesla um
i i mentioned this because that was that
went viral in china
but i think people outside of china
didn't see that
disgruntled owner smashes his tesla to
pieces with
uh crowbar i'm amazed that nobody at our
channel has seen that
like yeah that would definitely have
been brought up at the uh at the kitchen
table conversation
i'm here to share
another question is what happened to
that car after he smashed it up though
did he then turn around and sell it
secondhand that's also
i mean after you've gotten the viral
video what do you do with the smashed up
tesla sitting in your drive
are you that rich that you just
literally throw it in the garbage i
don't know
you might have cleaned it up and sold
the second hand after i just
just putting myself in his position it
seems like the people crying debunked
are assuming
that all of the scientists and engineers
at spacex and all these universities
haven't taken
a grade 11 physics course okay um and
i'm not an expert in uh battery pack
technology but it seems
that a lot of people are speculating
that the uh specs for the semi truck
even i believe the ceo of daimler said
it breaks the laws of physics so i'm
wondering
is this just a leader not much about
physics i know him
[Laughter]
yeah pretty happy you're engaged in a
physics discussion with him
i actually studied for this in college
so look i want to ask you a bit of a
broader question i think you to some
extent have kind of one foot or one toe
into the the space industry i mean you
know we're not going to disclose
anything about you but you often kind of
speak in the first person plural about
people who are involved in
the real nuts and bolts of putting
things into orbit and coast
coping with the enormous cost thereof is
that is that fair
yeah um you know i think
we're living in a very interesting era
in terms of the justifications for these
these enormous budgets i have to tell
you i am not uncomfortable with private
companies in general receiving millions
of dollars from the government
i have my own kind of pragmatic nihilist
nuanced view of how
how politics works but most things that
the public perceives
as public sector as being part of the
government's domain
actually are contracted out to private
companies to create
and of course this includes component by
component the pieces that make up the
international
space station everything else as
coronavirus comes to an end though
all of the western democracies are now
kind of teetering on the bridge of
of bankruptcy of deficit spending at
enormous levels
and they're it's starting to be an
odious question
of really how much of taxpayers money is
it appropriate
to put into the pockets of people like
elon musk and to put into the pockets of
uh
what are some other aerospace
corporations here put into the pockets
of uh
uh like boeing and ula and uh blue
origin
right uh you know the um you know the
so-called you know path breakers
people pushing back the horizon of new
technology so on and so forth
um and they're incredibly lazy stupid
fatuous investors get rich off it people
like elon musk who are less less famous
elon musk
i think you know we're probably coming
up to an era when there's going to be
more skepticism
and more hostility towards space travel
space programs or
or what have you and people are going to
have to question uh just a
personal anecdote i remember sitting at
a at a table
with a relative uh who was questioning
me about how much money the
building the wall cost donald trump's
you know wall with mexico
and i had the figures fresh in my mind
right there and i said okay
so what percentage of nasa's annual
budget is that
you know and when you start looking at
the space program compared to anything
else you say the government doesn't have
money for whether it's building a wall
or providing schools or providing pipes
that don't have lead in them for
drinking water
or what have you we have a bit of an
embarrassment of riches
and we have a question of of poverty and
scarcity where do you where do you see
that going
and i asked this partly because i really
think elon musk himself
could be a bit of a turning point in
this
uh here's what the way that we kind of
approach this is that anything that
is going to be developed or shine light
on
that embarrasses space exploration
is going to have a negative effect
overall okay so not only
with what's happening at boca chica um
is that a bunch of money going to
one company where there could be 10
other doles out
to smaller companies that might have
better ideas they might have better
technology
that just need that lab to to make that
happen
i think that that centralization of the
way the disbursements go
acts negatively however beyond that
if starship on one of these upcoming
launches
gets out of control let's say when they
they launched the booster on july 1st as
the intended date
uh it winds up going into la padre and
you know wipes out a small neighborhood
that kind of thing as soon as starship
kills
somebody people are going to get shut
right off of that entire
uh that entire aspect of space
exploration
and the way that it's being done it's
reckless what they're doing down
at book chica right now is reckless they
got lucky yesterday they had four other
accidents those accidents littered three
nature preserves with
uh you know razor sharp stainless steel
shrapnel
you're talking a state park to the west
to the south you've got another
protected wetland
to the east of boca chica you've got a
turtle beach that's used by like six
different species of endangered turtles
they get blown up every time a starship
is a fireball right
and and people say okay but like around
um around cape canaveral there's a
nature preserved there too why aren't
you bitching about that
because these nature preserves were
there first he built in the middle of a
nature preserve
where you know at kennedy they built the
the launch platforms and they built a
nature preserve around it
so you know apples and oranges yeah
but there's also the old saying about
you can't make an omelet without
breaking a few eggs
i mean the american public's attitude
towards loss of human lives
and loss of billions of dollars i think
those are two two very different things
we were watching the promo clip i say we
in reality i was yelling at my
girlfriend about how ridiculous this was
for the latest project from the
multi-millionaire owner of
virgin this is virgin galactic so
i'm sorry i forget the guy's name now
richard branson or something like that
there you go so you know and one of the
things that was yelling at my
girlfriends was participatory yelling
it's not actually an argument or a fight
you know
you know it's inevitable that one of
these is going to blow up
and all the passengers are going to die
like you know you can really chart out
how much time it is
so you know you're talking about sinking
millions of dollars into
adventure tourism and you know
admittedly every year people die doing
parachuting they die doing mountain
climbing
there is risk built into tourism of of
different kinds
but in this case people are investing in
this as a business
as a for-profit proposition
and you tell me what the profitability
outlook is or what the value of that
stock on the stock market is
the first time just one of those uh
space exploration vehicles shall we say
it's near earth orbit you know
but the the first time one of them burns
up in orbit and everyone
on board dies if we're talking about
money i'm being honest with you the
american public
they have a tremendous tolerance for
casualties you can have dead bodies
coming back from afghanistan every week
and people seem to be cool um
but you know if you're actually talking
about this on a on a profit making or
even break even basis
that's very hard for me to see people
tolerating um
once just one of those flights goes goes
badly
well you take a look at what happened
with the shuttles yeah right there's
one of them on the way up one of them on
the way down you know but
out of 135 missions 133 were
were successful so it had a 98.5
success rate something in that
neighborhood right but
each time something happened it shut the
program down
for years right right we're talking 30
months 32 months somewhere in that
neighborhood
right now you've got
there's certain things that are hinging
on spacex right now right they had
the lunar contract that's been shelved
because blue origin has put a
um put in a complaint instead of
dianetics
with a government over uh contracts
spacex's favor for being in a third rate
position
but you take a look at um
you know the the crew dragon right that
program depends on
spacex and nasa support to get you know
north americans up to
the international space station that's
going to become more important once the
russians and
chinese have their own thing because the
russians are abandoning the iss
right so how often are soyuz going to be
going to the iss
after the russians are out of the iss
that doesn't make a whole lot of sense
so our ability to get astronauts to
orbit into the iss
right now is going to be completely
dependent on crew dragon
or if starliner can ever get up and
running right
but if there's a major catastrophe that
spacex
is involved with then the company will
get shut down
right because it's going to be a top to
bottom forensic exercise
into where that the part that failed
came from or what part was it
because if they're if they're modeling
um
if they're modeling starship after uh
falcon which a lot of people say you
know like they're using the same
thrusters and that kind of thing
different materials different engines
different fuel but
certain uh
certain aspects that are familiar right
but they're gonna have to take the the
company apart
like they did for nasa and when
both of those shuttles failed and
at that point do we lose our ability to
get our own people to
orbit and also do we lose our faith in
the
illusion that this is a for-profit
company trading the stock market
i'm sorry i know i know it may be less
serious but politically that's also
interesting
like we're all pretending this is a
business and
to a large extent it's a government
department you know
well did you see the uh the episode that
we put together about solar city
yes yeah i've seen it okay okay so
uh one of the things that we go into one
of the tangents that we go into is how
uh spacex got the disbursement to create
crew dragon and the first thing they did
with that money
is they bought 255 million dollars worth
of solar city bonds to keep solar city
afloat
right right so there is a even though
that money was dedicated to the space
program
uh it was it was a show game right
because it was between spacex and
tesla and solar city and back and forth
and back and forth and the only way the
money ever moved
was in a way that benefited musk right
yeah his short-term self-interest was
was guiding these things yeah
exactly and now in july july 12
2021 he goes to court over that whole
thing
um for uh for the sale whether or not it
was a conflict of interest
if anybody wants to look at it it's in
the delaware court of johnson
and action number one two seven one one
dcs
and it goes ahead july 12th it was
supposed to go ahead last month
but um the legal team had to swap
if you look at the success of spacex
just in bidding for government contracts
here basically meaning nasa
do you have an explanation for that
because you know again to eliminate my
parents business
when my parents worked in museums
you could have a museum with a hundred
million dollar budget like the amount of
money would be huge but the amount of
money my parents would get would be ten
thousand bucks or something you know
they'd get some little fragment of it
but they would be competing if you're
bidding for a role
in planning or design they'd be
competing with the walt disney company
there'd be all these corporations saying
oh we want to design this museum we want
to do this
we want you know and it includes
decisions like what color you're going
to paint the walls and stuff it's really
not that glamorous
neither is space travel by the way i
realized
but you know yeah yeah yeah i
i don't want to do it myself but like
you know when you look at their success
in bidding do you feel it's just the
lack
of alternatives do you think that spacex
has been largely
unchallenged or do you think the
government agencies that are that are
evaluating the bids and tender and so on
did you think that they are themselves
influenced by the media hype that
they're believing in elon musk the same
way the journalists do
yeah i think there's a lot of a lot of
reality there
that um you know people look at them and
they
you know they see the reports that he's
the founder of tesla and
tesla success and he's the founder of
paypal of course not none of this is
true
but people think that he is and they
think that he has this track record of
establishing and building and selling
and
you know having successful companies but
it's always somebody else he's always
riding somebody else's shoulders i mean
even at spacex he's not
the uh he's not the brains of the
operation he never has been the rockets
that he designed all blew up
but you take a look at equine shotwell
and her
history and the fact that her husband
works for one of the other space
manufacturers i think it's jpl i'm not
100 sure
without looking at it but i mean he has
rocket scientists you don't know who
they are because he never mentions them
and he takes all the credit for what
they're doing
but when they move down the road he's
got to fill that gap and if he's ever
unable to fill that gap
then the whole you know the whole shell
game can fall apart
right um but so far as
their success in getting the contracts i
think a lot of it comes down to
spaghetti theory i think when nasa has
the
the budget to actually you know throw as
much money out there to see what sticks
as possible
that that's what they tend to do and of
course they were able to do that in the
last administration because
trump wanted the the space force right
and now
you've got a change in in the guard and
they've got
they've got other concerns and they're
they're cutting back because they want
more about
environmental and climate change
monitoring and that kind of thing
so at that point when the when the
budget got reduced
somehow musk knew to the dollar just
ahead of the 11th hour
what to bid for the hls system how we
got that information is probably going
to come up in that government inquiry
that
blue origin has just initiated that's
what is hls i assume this is an orbital
service
okay so human land
getting humans under the moon yes okay
good yeah so
um they have this they've got the three
systems lined up so you've got dianetics
you've got blue origin
and both of those two have mock-ups of
the interiors of their vehicles i mean
blue origin
six months ago delivered what their
lunar lander was going to look like
to nasa so that the astronauts who might
be going on it could walk through it and
sit in it and say okay this is great but
this display panel should be moved down
here so that i can reach it or this is
better viewing or whatever
so both the other two have that spacex
doesn't
spacex is the one who gets the contract
when the budget gets reduced to the
point where they can only send one
so there's there has to be some sort of
inside
operation there because i mean like i
said he knew
to the dollar what to bid for that right
the absolute last dollar i think the
the figure ends in a seven how do you
how do you put in a multi-billion dollar
contract that ends in a seven unless you
know exactly that's supposed to be a
seven
it's very strange these government
bidding processes and every so often
there's a scandal about
military equipment you know billions of
dollars being wasted on some missile
design or another and this kind of thing
you get five guys in suits and
suspenders
looking at these tender contracts and
making these decisions
but the truth is you know i think if we
had a referendum on it i think if we had
more
democracy i think everyone would vote
for elon
musk to lead the project to land us on
the moon i i'm just saying this is
really
i'm pro-democracy but it's very
challenging for me to look at
because i think this is you know kind of
the most sad and sick and wrong
side of democracy this is one of the
greatest weaknesses in democracy as a
political system and as a kind of
cultural habit of mine oh great oh yeah
the guy i've seen on tv the guy i've
seen on the news he's gonna
the guy who made millions of dollars out
of paypal
he must know a thing or two about lunar
landings
and that really is what it comes down to
a lot of the time right it's just public
exposure
everybody sees him or they one of the
worst things that has happened
to the scientific community in the last
20 years is cgi
because people think if you can make a
cgi about it and cgi makes sense that
everything else is going to be great
wonderful
and you know it's just a matter of time
before this
you know artificial vision is an actual
vision
and it's just people need to be able to
understand
one of the first things that they need
to kind of wrap their brains around
is just kind of you know spatial
awareness right
is the vessel that you're looking at
physically capable of holding
what people are saying is going to go
inside of it and in the case of starship
as we've shown in several of our
different episodes
it's simply not capable of holding what
musk says it's going to
you know the the refueling process that
he's outlined where he's just going to
slosh fuel between
one vessel and another and load up the
starship and the way they go under
they're going to
send the japanese billionaire off to off
to the moon on the
on the deer moon exercise well he's got
19 months to pull that together
not just the ship not just the launching
um not just the booster but also the
refueling and the re-entry back to earth
because a lunar system of starship even
the way it's designed if it's designed
perfectly the way the musk says it was
isn't capable of re-landing back on
earth
so how are the 12 people coming down
nobody thinks about this
it's almost like there's nobody at
spacex
that's working logistics well i i'd put
you this way too though
in terms of education everyone seems to
be willing to
accept that elon musk has a ba in
physics
and that covers it he's mentioned that
oh i studied physics at university
you've heard him say this now let me
just say uh
you personally could probably design an
exam
to ascertain whether or not someone has
the minimum requisite knowledge of
physics and to some extent engineering
to make a decision
on this kind of contract if you
right no no but but this is this kind of
challenge i think i think all
democracies have to start to face up to
in the united states of america if i
want to give advice
on buying and selling stocks in the
stock market i have to write an exam
series 65 series 66 exam by
by finra so there is there is an exam
and if you've written that exam
you get to say yeah i'm qualified to
give advice on what you should buy in
the stock market and there's another one
called the cfa and i say yeah i'm now a
qualified analyst i can give you my
analysis what's going on in the stock
market
there is almost no other field in the
united states of america that has this
yeah you can go to the other end of that
though and say you know
even beauticians need a license a dog
groomer needs a license
right but people call him an engineer
right and and he's not he's got no
engineering qualifications
he's got no no higher authority saying
that he's an engineer
i challenge you in the audience google
this do dog groomers need a license
where you live i think this changes some
jurisdiction
but you know everything would change if
the people who have to make decisions
about
sewage treatment and drinkable water so
you know there is this big scandal in
the state of michigan
uh flint michigan about this if the
people who made decisions or who voted
or who even talked about this on behalf
of the government
if you had to pass an exam saying yes i
am
fundamentally competent in understanding
how a hospital works
which is not the same as being a surgeon
like i understand hospital management
so and now that i've studied for that
and written in my exam here's what i
have to say about what's wrong with the
hospital system
i fundamentally understand physics and
engineering as it supplies
space travel the problem for my
perspective isn't just that elon musk
lacks that confidence i think the people
who sat in that room
and made the decision that he should win
the contract i think probably
they also lack this maybe some of them
but maybe
all of them you know you could be
looking at people who have a
distinguished military career
in aerospace and who end up being in
nasa or being the representative of
uh you know congress to nasa the people
who are actually making that decision or
various political appointments
who may be highly competent at something
but they lack they lack the ability to
see these problems that are so
obvious to you and i um in looking at
elon musk grandiose plans for the future
did you actually see the news release
that was released about
um about musk getting that award
because it's written in the first person
that we found that very very
interesting is that everything is i and
me
and uh so this was this is it
an official press release from spacex
yeah it's like well no it's from nasa
oh from oh really oh okay in the first
person okay
wow and the person who released it um
this lady whose name i can't remember
right now um
everything's written in the first person
about how i determined
and this is my recommendation and it's
almost like there wasn't
a committee right and that this deputy
head
of human launch services or something
like that
again i i don't have the that detail in
front of me of course i'm going to look
it up as soon as we're off here
it's almost like she had to get that out
of the way before the new administrator
taking over from jim bradenstein
took over yeah but it's almost like they
they were
they're you know anxious to get that
done before this new person could come
in and of course
now that blue origin and dianetics has
put in their uh
their challenges uh it all gets um it's
very
box anyway it's very often the case i
mean you know basically
one man designed the healthcare system
that we have in canada
back in 2008 china with over a billion
people
completely redesigned their healthcare
system good luck finding anything
written in english about
what happened and whether it was good or
bad i mean political decisions with a
really sweeping
profound long-term consequences maybe on
paper
they're made by a committee of five
people but there was really one person
who dominated that community
like when you look into these things and
you know how many people decided
uh the strategy for the americans
conquering vietnam
or whether or not america should go to
war in vietnam uh big decisions that
have really long-term consequences one
i've been drawing attention to actually
was the the 1971
war uh where richard nixon decided to
have an alliance with china
which continued till 2001 huge long-term
consequences five guys in a room and
maybe just one of them
you know made this decision and on what
basis and i've got to say
it's something that we so-called
democracies in the west
we have a lot more in common with
communist china than we want to admit to
ourselves
because so many of these supposedly
democratic things especially in your
field
i'm sorry but any any city in america
any city in canada
was there anything democratic about the
design of your subway system of your
train system
anything like this suddenly democracy
just stops
even though that's where things should
be the most democratic of all because
it's going to affect
you know everyone's daily life for the
next 50 years who builds the train
and how yep and not just the the
construction but construction noise
construction costs the
you know the addition to your tax bill
the way it's going to come through your
neighborhood the way you're going to
access that system is there going to be
a stop anywhere near you
i mean what what tends to happen is we
we elect these people
uh to sit in dark rooms and come up with
decisions on our behalf we think that
because we elected them that they're
acting on our behalf
or we elected the person who appointed
them
we didn't even like them we elected
someone else who selected them
right yeah i think what uh a lot of it
comes down to
uh in canada and in the us like
basically any
major democracy anymore is that
everything goes along party lines
and really i think the only way that
you're going to get back to a true
democracy
is by abolishing parties so that your
representatives
when they're sitting in ottawa or
sitting in washington they're actually
acting on your best behalf and making
alliances to
you know in the best interest of their
area and that way they're free
to vote yes on this and know on that and
actually benefit the people who elected
them to the office
not only in such a way that they get
elected but they can be recalled if
they're no longer
acting in our best interest and we don't
need
um one person at the top of it to
to kybash or veto anything that they
don't agree with
what we need is a figurehead that can
attend all the soirees the u.n and the
you know the
dinner parties and whatnot but there's
no reason why the people that are in
uh in representative rooms whether it's
the house of congress or house of
commons
um you know why they can't elect a
representative
to act in that regard and again if that
person is not doing the job
that they're supposed to be doing then
they get recalled and they have another
election
like i honestly think that the
polarization
uh that's happening in in politics
especially left and right right now
needs to needs to go away so that people
can kind of heal a little bit and come
back to the middle
because the way that it's going right
now is just getting worse and worse and
worse
and that's eventually there's going to
be some sort of implosion there and it's
not just
in politics it's uh in regards to
religions in regards to lifestyle
choices
in regards to the space industry uh you
know where you've got your pro and your
anti-musk
uh we didn't start off anti-musk but
uh the the way that the the channel has
evolved over time
um the the rabid nature
of the people that we call the muskrats
and maybe that's the misnomer but
it certainly describes them well um
you've got
this defensive and irrational defense
of something that's completely
irrational and really the only way that
you can
try to break through that veneer is to
to get
is equally um uh like enraged
sometimes in in how you're uh presenting
your material
because it's the only way to get through
to some of them well uh
theater has always been part of politics
going back to athens in rome
i'm not going to talk your ear off on
the reform of democracy because i'm
writing a book about that right now i
can plug my book here but yeah i'm in
the
final stages of publishing my first book
for grown-ups that i've ever written
i've written some children's story books
actually
but uh it's called no more manifestos
and yeah i
am really of the opinion the book
contains a very thorough going
critique of the american constitution
and its consequences
and the american constitution has indeed
influenced the constitutions of
all the democracies of western europe
and a lot of it a lot of comparative
analysis of places like
like china that i've talked about but i
mean i think though
it is for me in this instance what we're
talking about today
it's not as easy as saying more
democracy would be better because i
think you and i both know
that the vast majority of of the crowd
the vast majority of the voting public
they would support them they they
probably elect elon musk president
united states
which is terrifying we'll have a lot of
fights between them then that's crazy
that's
20 23 is not that far away that'll be
there before you know it how many times
have you had explosions
when you're on a rocket i don't know
like uh quite a few
six maybe five or six what are those
like what is it like when you watch it
explode this is a test program
we expect it to explode um
it's weird if it doesn't explode frankly
really yeah
um if current trends continue
uh if we you know if you
plot the points on the curve of progress
then then we should be
doing regular uh orbital flights with a
high probability of
uh safe landing in two years
and i just say what what qualifications
you have so just to allude to my own
personal history briefly
for many years i've been back and forth
to china i've been learning chinese i've
also lived in
cambodia thailand laos other countries
in asia right
and i've been learning things and i've
been doing humanitarian work
i've been doing all kinds of things that
lose money and don't earn money but that
do actually make me a
brighter person or a more useful person
whatever you want to say i could have
spent those same years doing
importing and exporting i'm thinking
about it right now because i'm going to
run out of money sooner or later
i could have spent 10 years going to
china
and buying the cheapest crap made out of
plastic for five dollars
bringing it to the united states of
america and selling it on amazon for a
hun
for a hundred dollars a piece instead
and that is one of the surest bets
in economics i can guarantee you i would
have gotten rich
doing that if you are a white person who
speaks chinese and you can just travel
back and forth between china
and the united states and put junk made
cheaply in china on amazon you will make
money and
tons of people are doing it and it just
really sickens me to think that people
would have more respect for my opinion
and i have more just because of the
number of dollars in my bank account
like oh
you've demonstrated that you can make a
lot of money now we care about what
you're gonna
say and to me elon musk is like it's
this phenomenon
in its purest form this is all he wants
to do is get money and have people talk
about him behind his back because of who
he's sleeping with and the car he's
driving
i mean you know this is a caricature of
kind of the worst aspects morally of the
21st century
american character and the majority of
people
love it and the majority of people
support it and the majority of people
vote with it so for me even though i'm
pro-democracy this is
yeah in this context i'm a real cynic
i'm real skeptical with the marks itself
go on yeah he can sleep a little bit
easier because
musk can never be president of the
united states he wasn't born in the u.s
so that is off of the table thank god
well yes hmm what if musk becomes
president of south africa would that be
more
boy could he turn that around yeah
canada is still an option for him though
he could
first thing we should assume is that we
are very dumb you know things have
obviously gotten way more smarter than
the past
way smarter the most important thing
like i said the most important
mistake i see smart people making is
assuming that they're smart
they're not yeah don't buy into the
hyperloop
it is a disaster waiting to happen
you may as well strap a bomb to get
dressed and
pull the pin if you got money to spend
spending on something that's actually
gonna
help somebody to get better in life
not to get dead what happens next
so let me just ask you i i used to ask a
political activist this whole time an
interview political actors and say
where do you think you're going to be
five years from now what are you
planning to accomplish in the next five
years
in the case of elon musk where is this
going
in the next five years
i don't want to narrow your answer here
i can think of some worst case scenarios
the the timeline that he's set out for
himself that if he doesn't make it
then you know it's just more broken
promises kicked down the road
um he needs to get the deer moon
ship circling the moon by the end of
so i mean that's he's lined that up for
himself
um he was supposed to have cargo
ships waiting for waiting for
explorers on on mars by 2018 he missed
2018 he missed 2020. he's going to miss
if he doesn't get refueling in orbit
lined up and that's going to be a whole
rigamarole as well if he doesn't get
that lined up he's going to miss 2024
then it's 24 26 29 31 those are the next
windows
and every time he misses a window his
city of a million by
2050 gets again further and further
kicked down the road
but if you take a look at some of the
episodes that we've done such as
you know the the one that deals with
okay his idea for getting people to mars
is in convoys of a thousand ships
to get those thousand ships up into
orbit you need to launch between seven
and twelve
thousand uh tankers uh and supply ships
to
to facilitate them while they're in
orbit and they're all going to go off
at the same time like battlestar
galactica and you could google that
musk battle star galactic it'll tell you
this this whole thing
about how he's planning on doing it but
we worked out the numbers on that and
it's like you know you're into the 50
trillion dollars as a grocery bill by
the time you get
all these ships up into orbit
and i mean again it's almost like nobody
at spacex is doing logistics
nobody understands the weight of water
nobody understands the cost of launching
groceries
nobody seems to understand how much
groceries people are going through
uh what space is going to take up where
right now
the way things sit we do not have life
support systems capable of pulling off a
martian mission
because the ones that they have on the
iss are the best that there are and they
need constant upgrade repair and
resupply
so if you take all this into
consideration
um i seriously and our group doesn't
think
that the starship gets much beyond leo
they might maybe pull off deer moon
uh how they're getting people back down
to the ground is still a bit of a
mystery
um but at the end of the day people are
starting to think that starship will
never become more than an leo delivery
system
and at that point it's redundant because
how many uh
how many falcon heavies are they selling
on an annual basis
right you don't have a large a large
large lift market
to facilitate um you know the need for
such a ship
and their delivery system i mean the
the more that it gets refined the more
starships starts to look like shuttle
and it the starship needs to look like
shuttle if it's going to be
that's what's physically possible
exactly like if you take a look at the
way the uh
the payload be of um i know i've
i've known this stuff since childhood i
mean go straight but i mean i like a lot
of people i learned a lot about how
space travel works when i was chopping
it even i can see what's wrong on the
base of what i read when i was 11 years
old i can see what's wrong with it but
yeah okay
exactly so uh you have musk's
starship which basically if it's going
to act as a payload delivery system
is going to open up like the uh like the
villains
the spaceship was in um in moonraker
right where it opens up like jaws and
then clamps down
instead of it it would actually be
releasing it but you take a look at the
hinge points that such a system would
require and those are impossible
everything would come down to one
in the smallest hinge you know that you
could because of the way that
the the skin would come up right so it's
much better if you open it up the way
that shuttle did
where you've got flat surfaces and
straight surfaces where you can
attach multiple hinges or one very long
you know piano type hinge
that has fewer points of failure and it
closes in on itself
if we were going to make a list of
reasons why his starship program is
impossible it's actually going to pretty
pretty long list
and broadly speaking he just went back
to like the
the 1950s he undid all the progress the
space program had made
you know people switched from using
liquid fuel to using solid fuel
for a reason we stopped having rockets
land on their bum
for a reason like a straight up into
like a cigar or taking off and landing
you know we switched to
you know having the space shuttle with
this you know array of heat resistant
tiles and landing flat more like an
airplane
for a reason i mean we had booster
rockets separate for a reason
you just go through step by step all the
distinctive aspects of why the
space shuttle program worked the way it
did and why russian rockets evolved in
the way they did over the same period of
time and why chinese rockets evolved the
way they did
and elon musk is starting again in the
1950s and repeating errors
that you know there was no reason to be
point where the the people were turning
from orbit have to splash down in the
ocean with parachutes
well and look the only thing i'd say is
again not to insult the intelligence
people in your field
but you know five years is a long time
and in the last five years like between
2015 and 2020 sorry i realized we're
actually doing this interview in 2021
but but nevertheless between 2015 and
i think elon musk could have learned all
this stuff he could have learned the
stuff i learned when i was an 11 year
old boy
i think he could have gained an
appreciation for the history of the
space program and why the space shuttle
ended up the way it did
i do not mean that he would have had a
phd level knowledge of these things
but he could in broad brushstrokes
understand that and he didn't
he played video games you know like even
if you look at how
how ignorant he's remained since he
began
spacex you know to me that's more
astonishing like if i start a pizza
restaurant
and the day i started i don't really
know anything about the pizza business
but five years into it i've learned all
these lessons
that's he is a dude who started spacex
in the last five years he's remained so
ignorant that when i look forward to the
next five years it's like wow i guess
there's going to be more lsd
and more getting famous rock stars
pregnant
and more you know more playing video
games and drug use and scandals and
getting hauled into court for
uh accusing someone of being a pedophile
on twitter you know i
you know i don't have any specific
predictions away but to me you know
video games are part of the beating
heart of his ignorance they're part of
the way that he produces and reproduces
his own ignorance over time
it's almost with some of the projects
that he comes up with like hyperloop
like starship like cybertruck
it's almost like the the actual geniuses
and the board
of that particular company are like okay
you need to get this guy out of our hair
so we can get our work done
let him do something stupid okay um
that that little napkin drawing that he
did with the truck make him work on that
and just get him
off the factory floor so that we don't
have to trip over him anymore and worry
about getting fired because we've upset
his feelings
yeah right and that's how you wind up
that's how you wind up with a cyber
truck that's how you wind up with a
starship that's how you wind up with you
know air skates in a vacuum for gracie
well and meanwhile i think the only
company we can see this with
is um his car company tesla but it seems
like all the brilliant hard-working
honest people they quit
or get fired one after another and the
people who remain and the people he
recruits and the people he grooms for
leadership
are these kind of unthinking yes men
these people who flatter him and who fit
into his ideology
so i mean culturally that's very
different from one milia to the next
but i think we saw that with tesla and i
i have to assume with hyperloop that's
the case
because there's this just mind-blowing
incompetence at every level of the
hyperloop progress
part of me of at every level of the
hyperloop project there's this
mind-blowing incompetence so i think
there must be something similar
where um you know the ignorance
and arrogance of elon musk at the top of
spacex
somehow shapes forms and reforms the
other people
in the organization and i again you keep
alluding to there being other geniuses
in the room
but i'm guessing the geniuses quit or
get fired the same way that you document
the same way that you documented
yourself at tesla
yeah and you're seeing that at neurolink
now as well right
like of the original founders less than
half of them are there
i i don't even want to talk about
knowledge that's so depressing oh my god
and you know hey i asked you about the
next five years it can get worse
elon musk wants to make a nuclear
reactor
that will hover in midair and act like a
man-made sun
i can see ways that would go wrong in
the next fight
he could really see that's going that's
for sure
this could end up being at you know
cartoonish levels of of super villainy
and we'll look great talking to you this
is the first time we talked i made some
youtube videos shutting him out
and so on and you know i'm a fan of his
channel those of you don't already know
this
is a common sense skeptic there's a link
in the description
the youtube channel issues clarify it is
not just one person
he's alluded to it several times there
were a group of people who are remaining
anonymous
and i think it's fair to say you know
your channel is not just
debunking elon musk i i assume you've
alluded to there was a point in the past
where you're worried about solar
roadways
some other things and you could move on
to other other issues
the idea is that we're supposed to be
covering as many different aspects of
technology and space travel as possible
but it's just musk is a cornucopia he is
on all the different
uh all the different aspects every every
uh arm and leg of technology here right
now and that's how he keeps himself in
the news
but the problem is you know as we we
point out over and over again
many of them are houses of cards or
there's so much information there that
people haven't
been exposed to that we try to distill
down
into bite-sized pieces so that you don't
need anything more
than common sense and skepticism to
actually be able to
know there is something wrong there well
and you know symbols are dangerous
things
elon musk has become a symbol of
progress
he is influencing the way people think
about science and technology
and the future of our society i don't
think of this as
stand-up comedy i don't think of this as
just having a laugh at elon musk for his
own sake i actually think ultimately
this is a very
important political and ultimately
ethical and moral
[Music]
challenge
maybe we can we can practice
yes